I want you to hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explained in
this episode we're going to be looking
at the 90s classic and debut feature
film from acclaimed director Quentin
Tarantino Reservoir Dogs in 1992
Tarantino made waves in the cinema world
with the release of this blood-soaked
detail of a heist gone wrong there was a
unique voice to the way he told this
story in the presentation of the
narrative in a nonlinear fashion coupled
with the sheer style that he applied to
it the dialogue was memorable believable
and delivered by a group of very
talented performers but why are we here
to talk about the film's ending there's
nothing to explain
right well right up on Front Street
maybe so as I always say with these
videos however it's more an exploration
than an explanation so let's discuss
this film's ending and the pieces that
perhaps don't slot in to a clear-cut
conclusion the film focuses on a group
of criminals who have been assembled to
carry out the diamond heist
each man is given a nondescript code
name the idea being that they're all
strangers and have no ties to each other
the two most important players as it
relates to the film's ending and in my
mind the film as a whole are mr. white
played by Harvey Keitel and mr. orange
played by Tim Roth the story opens up
with the group making conversation in a
diner with Tarantino's mr. brown making
a case for the meaning behind the
Madonna song like a virgin and Steve
Buscemi's mr. pink explaining his
rationale behind tipping Jesus Christ I
mean these ladies aren't starving to
death and make minimum wage and I used
to work minimum wage and when I did I
wasn't lucky enough to have a job the
society deemed tip worthy you don't care
they count on your tips to live
and what this is it's the world's
smallest violin playing just for the
waitresses we then see the crew leaving
the diner in slow motion as the title
card appears
[Music]
and cut straight into the mouth of pure
chaos as mr. orange is bleeding out in
the back of a car with mr. white driving
and attempting to comfort him
the heist went wrong horribly wrong
mr. white brings mr. orange back to the
meeting point in a warehouse owned by
Joe Cabot the mob boss who orchestrated
the job mr. pink arrives at the
warehouse
- and his frantic certain that they were
set up while the majority of the film
takes place inside the warehouse we do
cut back to earlier events that flesh
out the characters their relationship to
Joe and Joe's son nice guy Eddie
Michael Madsen's mr. blonde arrives at
the warehouse with a police officer that
he's kidnapped blonde apparently had
murdered a few civilians during the
heist which infuriates mr. white who is
a crook but never wanted lives to be
taken they tried to get information from
the cop and mr. blonde ends up torturing
him in a scene that definitely didn't
stir up any controversy at all
[Music]
mr. blonde proceeds to douse the cop in
gasoline and is about to send him up in
flames when suddenly mr. orange shoots
him dead and it's revealed that he is in
fact an undercover cop nice guy Eddie
arrives kills the cop and accuses mr.
orange of being the mole mr. white sure
that mr. orange is not a cop defends him
and tensions reach a boiling point Joe
then turns up and the remaining men end
up in a Mexican standoff the resulting
gunshots and who shot who has been
dissected and discussed for decades but
I'll leave that particular analysis up
to you and to the left and to the left
mr. pink who was hiding quickly leaves
with the diamonds one of the elements of
this ending that was discussed a lot
over the years was the fate of mr. pink
as he is seemingly the only one who gets
out alive listen carefully during this
final scene of the film and you can hear
in the background mr. pink get into his
car and after a few false starts manages
to drive off before the sirens ring out
the police arrive and arrest him so mr.
pink does survive but would no doubt go
to jail for his crimes as for mr. white
and mr. orange they're both left
together in this final moment
[Music]
after vehemently defending mr. orange
being a mole an undercover cop who had
set them all up mr. white is heartbroken
to learn that he placed all of his trust
in a traitor the relationship that forms
between the two of them is certainly the
most interesting and ultimately
explosive of the entire film they bond
very firmly after the heist goes wrong
and even though they're complete
strangers
mr. white feels so badly for this kid
who is dying right in front of him
they're charged conversations as oranges
in a blind panic feeling like he was
going to die
gave mr. white every ounce of trust he
felt like he needed to believe the
orange was not the traitor no but you're
wrong like hell I am
Joe trust me on this you've made a
mistake we're all real emotional but
you're barking up the wrong tree I know
this man he wouldn't do that you don't
know jack-shit i do-- at the end when he
learns the truth white says nothing he
wails and places his gun on oranges face
but he doesn't pull the trigger straight
away filled with an
and regrets the police burst in through
the door and order him to put his gun
down we zoom in closer that we don't see
orange or the gun and gunfire rings out
sending whites out of frame so what
happened
did he kill orange and then get shot by
the police or could he not bring himself
to do it and got shot anyway
the bigger question I think is why
orange would even tell mr. white this he
surely would know that this information
would break mr. white and no doubt lead
to him shooting orange out of anger I
think the most likely answer is the
orange truly did grow to respect mr.
white as a man at this point mr. orange
has been shot multiple times and has
been bleeding out for a fair amount of
time maybe he just thought too much of
mr. white to continue lying to him at
the very end of his life the only solace
he could take and how badly he had ended
up dying in this criminals arms was to
be honest and apologized to white for
having placed his trust in the wrong
person as for the final beat did white
shoe orange or did he hold back unable
to actually do it
now there is one gunshot in which
White's body slightly moves but he shows
no pain
then there's a second in which he moves
out of shots I think it's pretty safe to
say that he shot mr. orange and was then
gunned down by the police you hear the
police pleading with him to put the gun
down which also indicates they weren't
going to open fire unless he made a move
pulling the trigger and shooting mr.
orange would have been that move
it ended for mr. white and mr. orange in
the same way ended for the majority of
the crew by the close of the story with
them both dead and riddled with bullets
all victim of one bad day destroying
everything Reservoir Dogs is a grisly
tale of pride respect friendship trust
and ultimately tragedy
[Music]
you